---
title: "Nice math book for physics and advanced mathematics"
date: 2025-06-26 07:10:00 + 0800
math: true
categories: [Physics]
tags: [Advanced math, Book]
---


## My math is in such shambles that this book is now my last resort...

<br>Nonetheless this is actually a really comprehensive book! If you want to breeze through college/competition physics with minimal math pressure, go for it!<br>

## _"Mathematical Methods for Physics and Engineering : A Comprehensive Guide"_   by 3 smart people.


<a href="/assets/files/math.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" style="display: inline-block; padding: 10px 20px; background-color: #007acc; color: white; border-radius: 6px; text-decoration: none;">PDF File</a>


<br>The recommended plan is to study it along with a standard physics textbook(for me it's _Physics_ by HRK - it better be calculus based!), learn the math and deriviations of equations from this math book when you encounter them in your physics textbook.<br>

Unfortunately, most people I know don’t really do physics—just one into astro, another deep in thermo and one grinding Maxwell's equations. And perhaps most frustratingly, the best USAPhO result from MA this year has only been a bronze medal... <br><br>

**That needs to change.**

<br>It’s probably true that I first jumped into this rabbit hole because I felt I wasn’t _smart_ enough to rely solely on math olympiads. I had the (mistaken) impression that physics required less raw IQ — which, let’s be clear, is a total rumor that needs debunking.<br>

That said, physics has significantly expanded both my passion for and understanding of math. Olympiad-level math is undoubtedly an incredible “high school career,” yet physics brings a different kind of depth, connecting any abstract math knowledge to the real world, which is unexpectedly satisfying to study.<br>
